# App 4A: Adding tooltips

Tooltips are great for examining single datapoints in the data. We're going to add tooltips to our scatterplot so that users can hover over a datapoint and see all the information.

There are a couple of web programming techniques we need to understand before we can understand how tooltips work. 

In terms of interactivity, `shiny` has the following interactions built into `renderPlot()`: `hover` (where in the graph the mouse is hovering), `click` (grabs the location where you clicked), and `brush` (select multiple points). We'll play around with `hover` and `click`.

Both the `hover` and `click` arguments will return the same thing: basically an object (we'll call it a `hover` object for now) which has the x-y coordinate information about the mouse position. That gets us part of the way there. The other part is returning the row in our data that's the closest to that point on the graph. `nearPoints` handles getting the row from the `data.frame`, which we'll refer to as a `point`. We use both this `hover` and `point` object to build our tooltip.  

Once we have the row, we pass this on to a helper function called `return_tooltip`, which returns the location where we want the tooltip as well as the content of the tooltip. Then we display it onto our plot using `wellPanel`.

## Exercise

1. Try running the `app.R` in `04A_tooltips`. Mouse near a data point. Did you get a tooltip?
2. Try changing the `hover` argument in `plotOutput` to `click`. That is, instead of

```
 plotOutput("scatter_plot", hover = "plot_hover"),
```
make it

```
plotOutput("scatter_plot", click = "plot_hover"),
```
What did that do with our interactivity?

3. Uncomment the `print` statement in the `renderUI` codeblock. Try mousing over a point. Where is it printing the output? (hint: not the webpage.) How does this help us?

4. If you're really interested in how it works, try printing `hover` as well.

# App 4B: Adding tooltips with `plotly`

There is another way to add tooltips: use the `plotly` library. This is a JavaScript (built on top of `d3.js`) library that makes your `ggplots` more interactive, with built in tooltips. 

The `plotly` library itself relies on `d3.js`, which is a client-side visualization library. So if you add `plotly`, does this make your shiny app client-based? Not quite. All of the controls and data serving are still done *server-side*. It's only the last bit that is translated to JavaScript and is *client-side*.

Please note that we're not putting anything on the `plotly` servers when we do this. All of the data still lives on your server.

## Exercise

1. Try running the `app.R` in `04B_tooltips_plotly`. Mouse over a datapoint. Neat, huh?

2. How did we supply the infomation to the tooltip? Take a look at the `aes_string()` code. Notice we're passing in a bunch of dummy variables into `aes_string`. Do these variables appear in the tooltip?



## For More Info

The `plotly` package can instantly make your graphs more interactive using the `ggplotly()` function. For more info and some recipes, go here: https://plot.ly/ggplot2/ 

