# App 3: Adding tooltips with `plotly`

Tooltips are great for examining single datapoints in the data. We're going to add tooltips to our scatterplot so that users can hover over a datapoint and see all the other values that go along with a datapoint.

There is an easy way to add tooltips to our graphs: use the `plotly` library. This is a JavaScript (built on top of `d3.js`) library that makes your `ggplots` more interactive, with built in tooltips. 

The `plotly` library itself relies on `d3.js`, which is a client-side visualization library. So if you add `plotly`, does this make your shiny app client-based? Not quite. All of the controls and data serving are still done *server-side*. It's only the last bit that is translated to JavaScript and is *client-side*.

Please note that we're not putting anything on the `plotly` servers when we do this. All of the data still lives on your server. We're just using the JavaScript library.

## Exercise

1. Try running the `app.R` in `03_tooltips_plotly`. Mouse over a datapoint. Neat, huh?

```{r eval=FALSE}
shiny::runApp("03_tooltips_plotly")
```

2. How did we supply the infomation to the tooltip? Take a look at the `aes_string()` code. Notice we're passing in a bunch of dummy variables into `aes_string`. Do these variables appear in the tooltip?


3. Modify the `aes_string()` statement to only show 

## For More Info

The `plotly` package can instantly make your graphs more interactive using the `ggplotly()` function. For more info and some recipes, go here: https://plot.ly/ggplot2/ 

